This is a data file that accompanies ``The effects of resources and population expansion on female-male protein consumption among hunter-gatherers." The raw data used in the paper are contained in 3 data.csv files. This document describes the files and columns contained within.

Files: 

data/FinalRCDTexas3.csv.: This file contains all radiocarobon ages associated with archaeological remains collected from Central Texas and the Texas Coastal Plain. 

Latitude-decimal degrees north
Longitude-decimal degrees west
Site Name--name of archaeological site	
Trinomial--unique trinomial for each site	
Assay No.--unique id for lab and each radiocarbon smaple	
Provenience--provenience of dated material if known
Feature Type--archaeological feature from which material was recovered
Material--material dated	
Taxa dated-species or genera of data material	
Human--yes or no. yes indicates human remains dated	
Age-- radiocarbon age	
Error--standard deviation of raw radiocarbon age	
Corrected/Raw	
Corrected/Normalized 14C age	 
Corrected/Normalized Age	
Delta 13C	
Delta 13C source	
Raw/Measured Age	 
Raw/Measured Age	
AMS or Radiometric	
Comments	
Reference
Region--Central Texas =CTx, Coastal Plain=TCP
Zone--Inland, riverine or coastal ecosystems

data/TexasHGIsotopesMaleFemale.csv: This file contains information on the stable isotopes of individuals buried in Central Texas and on the Texas Coastal Plain. 

Site--Archaeological site name
Individual ID (paper)--Provenience of individuals at a site	
delta13cap--delta 13C apatitive values	
delta13ccol--delata 13C collagen values	
delta15n--delata 15N collagen values	
C_N--collagen to nitrogen ratio
MidPoint--median date of radiocarbon age on an individual or the median date of associated component for individuals	
PeriodName--Cultural historical time period
PeriodID--Numeric ID for each cultural historical time period.
Age--Estimated age of individual at time of death, as gathered by source material. 
sex--Estimate of male or female for individuals. U indicates unidentified. M=male, F=female.	
Estimated Latitude--Decimal degrees north, obscured
Estimated Longitude--Decimal degrees west, obscured
Body part--Body part (teeth or bone) used for radiocarbon dating and isotope analysis.
Source--source of data	
Setting--Central Texas =CTx, Coastal Plain=TCP
Setting2--Id of inland, riverine and coastal ecosystems



data/TCPPerCap.csv This files contains the time-series of the per capita growth rates of all simulated KDEs, the mean KDE, and per capita growth rate of the mean KDE.

calBP--30 year time-steps in cal BP.
PeriodID--Cultural historical time period	
PeriodID2--Numeric ID for each cultural historical time period.
v1-v200: The per capita growth rate of each KDE in 30 year intervals
MKDE--The mean value of the 200 KDEs at each 30 year time-step
PerCap--The per capita growth rate of the mean KDE



